1 Our destinations
Get out of the city and on a nice beach!
Some like their holidays active, others like things slow. There is no
shame in going on holiday, kicking back and doing absolutely nothing, yet so
often in reality it doesn't quite work out like that. Arrive in a new
destination, and most of us will instantly want to head out and explore every
nook and cranny. We just can't help ourselves.

We have come up with a few locations that will help you a hand in
resolving this conondrum. These destinations feature some of the most
spectacular scenery seen anywhere in the world, but there is not much to do
other than gawk at it in awe, and kick back...

2 Beaches to relax in...
2.1. Aitutaki, Cook Islands
Too good to be true, yep, that is definitely the tag we would attach to
Aitutaki, an island of the Cook Islands in the South Pacific that circles around
a shallow lagoon. Besides diving into the crystal clear water, laying on the
beach under a palm tree and having a bite or a drink in the bars and restaurants
on Aitutaki, there is NOT much to do here at all. Just the way we like it.

2.2. Maldives
The Maldives warrant an obvious inclusion in this list. 1,192 coral islands
that offer absolutely NOTHING to do except for the most gorgeous shallow waters
full of marine life, beaches and fantastic resorts. Go here and laze your days
away.

2.3. Saba
Good old Saba. This tiny Caribbean volcanic island officially forms part of
the Kingdom of the Netherlands and pops out of sea like a mountain out of
nowhere. It has 2,000 inhabitants and has a single road connecting everything.
So tiny, yet such great scenery and no way to easily get off the island. Yep,
you'll definitely have to relax here.

2.4. Koh Rong, Cambodia
This is not the kind of Cambodia you had in mind, trust us. No temples, no
Khmer era relics. Koh Rong is more like a Thai island without all the
development. Fantastically beautiful, yet no resorts and nothing to see or do
other than beaches and jungle. Sounds good, right?

2.5. Koh Lipe, Thailand
Almost everybody can name you a few "Koh" of Thailand nowadays. But not many
have heard of Koh Lipe, and looking at its size that is no surprise. Put it back
to a Phuket or Langkawi on the map and you can barely spot it. This car-free
island has absolutely nothing to do but long stretches of beach with shallow
waters in front of it, and a bit of jungle in the interior. Once you get here,
you will not be able to do much else than laying back, having a swim, grabbing a
drink or bite to eat. And the next day? Rinse and repeat. Love it.
				
3 Beaches off the beaten track

Maybe we are spoiled. We are running this website out of tropical Singapore,
which means year-round warm temperatures at home anyway, but also countless
fantastic South-east Asian travel destinations just a weekend trip away. Whether
we want to jet off to Bali or Phuket, to Bangkok or Hong Kong, it is often a
matter of conveniently flying off on a budget airline after work on a Friday and
returning late on a Sunday.

The only downside to this is that we are not the only one doing this! You can
fly to Krabi or Nha Trang, but then in many places you will still spend your
weekend packed like sardines on a beach, next to your neighbours back home. Long
story short, sometimes you want to head off to a place with palm trees and white
sand beaches but at the same time get away from the crowds as well. If that's
what you are after, we have some suggestions for you (that are not just located
in Asia, of course). For even more inspiration just use our Destination Search.

3.1 Fernando de Noronha, Brazil
The first destination is an island well off the coast of Brazil in South America
called Fernando de Noronha. This is a renowned eco travel destination that might
just be one of the most pretty spots to visit in Brazil. But as it is pretty out
of the way, the (domestic and foreign) crowds don't seem to have quite
discovered it. So go here, enjoy some hiking into the rocky jungle covered
interior, or enjoy the water and go swimming, surfing or diving. Take note that
accomodation here is basic at best, but then that's the whole point isn't it?

3.2 Bohey Dulang, Malaysia
Bohey Dulang is one of the islands the forms part of the Tun Sakaran Marine Park
in Sabah of Malaysia. You will need to travel to Semporna and spend the night
there, then make your way here by boat. The main sight is the volcanic crater
that is under water and which you get spectacular views over after you have made
the effort of climbing your way up through the thick jungle... Once you find
your way down again you can go swimming or snorkeling although you won't find
any real beaches. But then again you won't find many people either!

3.3 Moorea, French Polynesia
Everybody knows Bora Bora. Nobody knows Moorea (which lies 240 kilometer or 150
miles to its south-east, right next to Tahiti). This island is sometimes
described as a more authentic alternative to Bora Bora. There is certainly
accomodation here that is far from basic (looking at you Hilton and
Intercontinental), but the crowds are by any definition less thick too. The
interior is covered with mountains and lush rain forest, while the beaches are
nothing less than dreamy.

3.4 Havelock Island, India
This place in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands is not really a household name.
Yet, as sooner or later tourists will start discovering it right? Part of India
but with a vibe that is more comparable to Thailand, white sand beaches that are
likened to the Maldives and fantastic scenery both around the beaches and
inland. Best of all? It is cheaper and much, much quieter. For now.

3.5 Carriacou, Grenada
And finally, back to the Caribbean. Carriacou is an island of the Grenadines
island chain that is part of Grenada. Travel to the main island of Grenada and
you will have no trouble finding golf courses and luxury resorts, but travel to
Carriacou and you will find a quieter and much more back-to-basics kind of
place.
